---
title: PodWhat
date: 2018-06-09 11:20:28 +0000
layout: post
description: What are you listening to?
permalink: "/podwhat"
undefined: ''
twitter_text: ''
---

__Saturday 09 June 2018 01:21:33 PM__

Podcast consumption, much like reading books, is a very passive form of entertainment. However, it is a significant time investment and is thus a strong indicator of choices and likes of an individual. I looked around for a service which can be closely described as a Goodreads for podcasts. So I have decided to build one. Instead of the usual, project summary at the end, I want to try something different with this one. I'd try and log my thoughts and progress as I take this project forward. One key difference between Goodreads and this porject that most of the activity (reading) for Goodreads, does not happen on a device. For when it does (eBooks), the experience is that much better. With features like sharing quote and marking text while in the middle of the reading experience. However, all of listening happens on a device.

Not terribly thrilled with the name *PodWhat*, but it will do for now. 

__Monday 11 June 2018 02:17:06 PM__

Over the weekend, I have thought a bit about how I want to proceed. Here is a sketch of what I think would be ideal fetaures for PodWhat:

- A social page for users to display which podcasts they subscribe to
- A way to index and search available podcast
- A way to recommend/highlight certain podcasts
- Ability to leave a review on shows (Possibly pull iTunes reviews?)
- Building a social graph for users to add friends and see what they are listening
- Building a recommendation engine to suggest podcasts

To start with, the first version should be able to:

- Parse an OPML file to list all the podcasts
- Construct a one page summary that allows one-time starring and removing podcast
- Ability to share the page on Twitter to start


__Tuesday 12 June 2018 04:07:19 PM__

First step, writing a simple script to parse OPML text and pull iTunes podcast data. Maybe make it an API?

